QA : How to manage Issues (#226)
PrestaShop/open-source: content/project-organization/quality-council/processes/issue-management.md

## The Issue Manager job

> Your job is to **qualify issues** submitted to the GitHub project. Good issues help us discover bugs and provide ideas to improve PrestaShop and the native modules.These are the tree questions you must ask yourself:

Reviewer: really? 🌴

Author: Fixed

> - **Is the issue valid?** The issue must be either a bug report or a request for feature. We only cover the PrestaShop project (Core + native modules).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Is the issue valid?** The issue must be a bug report. We only cover the PrestaShop project (Core + native modules). Request for feature should be converted in GitHub Discussions.
```

- **Has all the needed information been provided?** The issue must be understandable and contain the required information as provided in the issue template, complemented with any other detail needed for reproduction.
- **Can it be reproduced?** An issue can't be fixed if we can't reproduce it.

Here are some tips:

- **Don't provide free support.** Your job isn't to help the reporter fix their problem, but to determine if the problem is caused by a defect in the software (or in documentation).
- **Be pragmatic about your efforts.** It's the reporter's responsibility to provide the information needed to reproduce the problem in an understandable way. Don't waste your energy doing guesswork or waiting for a response.
- **Don't be a robot either.** Don't take these guidelines to the letter. If the reporter makes an effort, try to be flexible.

## Issue state & labels

> Github has only two states for issues: open and closed. We use labels to keep track of issue type, intermediate state, severity and resolution.

Reviewer: `GitHub` is correct for me.

### Main Labels

1. **Type**
    - **`Bug`** – a defect in the software
    - **`Deprecated - Feature`** – a new feature, a change in an existing functionality (deprecated since April 2023)*
    - **`Task`** – an issue to track an action that’s not a fix or improve the software like to release a module or network infrastructure changement. It’s a task mainly to be done by the maintainer dev.

>     - **`Epic`** – a epic is a group of issue that are going to

Reviewer 2: Isn't there a stuff missing at the end of the sentence here?

Author: It's the same in Notion.

>     - **`Epic`** – a epic is a group of issue that are going to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **`Epic`** – an Epic is a group of issue that are going to
```

2. **Status**
    - **`NMI`** – "Need More Info" - the issue is waiting for its author to provide more details about their request
    - **`Needs specs`** – the issue is waiting for specification, the development should not start until it's ready.
    - **`Ready`** – the issue has been specified and is ready to be picked up by a dev
    - **`WIP`** – a dev has claimed the issue and is working on it
    - **`Deprecated - TBR`** – “To Be Reproduced” (deprecated since August 2023)*
3. **Resolution**

>     - **`Fixed`** – the issue been resolved

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **`Fixed`** – the issue has been resolved
```

        
        In addition to this label, additional labels can be added for informative purposes:
        
        - **`Can't reproduce`** – the reported bug cannot be reproduced
        - **`Duplicate`** – the issue has already been reported
4. **Severity** *(only for bugs), example [here](../../../../get-involved/report-issues/how-issues-are-sorted/)*
    - **`Trivial`** – cosmetic, low impact bugs
    - **`Minor`** – low severity bugs
    - **`Major`** – high severity bugs
    - **`Critical`** – shop-stopper bugs

### Ad-hoc labels

1. **`Verified`** – the bug report has been successfully reproduced
2. **`Deprecated - Regression`** – the bug breaks a feature that was working well before (deprecated since August 2023)*
3. **`Developer Feature`** – technical feature, targeting developers
4. **`<branch>`** – where the bug has been reproduced on current branch like `8.1.x` or `develop` branch
5. Solution available – known solution for a bug that hasn't been fixed/released yet
    - **`PR available`** – a PR fixing the bug is available
    - **`Workaround available`** – a workaround for the bug has been shared

> 6. **`<Category>`** - **`BO`** (Back-office), **`FO`** (Front-office) or  **`WS`** (Webservices) ... - Which part of the software the feature bug/feature is applied

Reviewer 2: Should we mention the "CO" category?

Author: As you want :)

1. If the task is dev oriented, add the `Developer Feature` label.
2. If the issue seems properly specified, set the status label to `Ready`. Otherwise, set it to `Needs specs`.
3. **Don’t forget** to add these labels like : **Categoy** (`BO`, `FO`, …), **Pages** (`Products`, `Module`, `Order`, …), ….

{{% notice warning %}}
Take some time to verify that the contributor's environment satisfies [PrestaShop's system requirements](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/1.7/basics/installation/system-requirements/) for 1.7 or [PrestaShop's system requirements](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/8/basics/installation/system-requirements/) for 8.
{{% /notice %}}

### Duplicated issues

It is important to avoid creating a duplicate bug. To do this, we must search in GitHub to make sure the issue hasn't already been created. **This step is critical.** To do this, use labels to filter as many issues as possible in GitHub. Be careful, remember to look at the closed issues.

If a duplicate is found:

1. Answer using the "Duplicate Issue" template.
2. Add the `Invalid` and `Duplicate` labels.
3. Close the issue.

### Reproducing the issue

> We must be able to reproduce the bug in a controlled environment. You can record your attempt, use a screen recorder (like [Screencastify](https://www.screencastify.com/), a Chrome extension), download it and then upload it on Github, post it in a comment so that the issue’s author can see the steps you used to reproduce their issue, either on the current branch or on develop branch, depending of what the author declared in his issue.

Reviewer: `GitHub` (or please fix the whole file)

Author: Fixed

> #### If t**he issue cannot be reproduced**

Reviewer: wrong format with `** ... **`

Author: Fixed

#### If the **issue CAN be reproduced**

Once we have reproduced the issue with all the details given by the author, we need to check if the bug exists in the **next stable PrestaShop version to be released**.

#### **The issue is not reproduced in the next stable PrestaShop version**

That means the issue has since been corrected. So you have to find the PR that fixes the problem (it can be a migration PR, or a PR that fixes something else and fixes the problem by side effect!). We then answer the author to give him the information about the PR that fixes the problem, and tell him to update his version of PrestaShop. The issue is then closed. Add the label "Fixed" and don’t forget to add the milestone.

#### **The issue is reproduced in the next stable PrestaShop version**

Now we can say that the report is indeed a bug: we now add the `Verified` label. 

Now we have to go back up the chain to find the source of the problem. To do this, test the latest stable version of the previous minor release.

If the issue is reproduced: the bug follows the normal course: go to the next step.

> If the issue is not reproduced: **It’s a regression!** Test all the latest patch versions of the current minor version (e.g. 1760, 1761, 1762...) to find out in which version the issue has been introduced. If motivated, look for the PR in question. Then the issue follows the normal course: go to the next step. In addition, it has to be posted on #qa-core channel (PS Slack) and #dev-core (Public Slack). The Project must then be labeled by selecting the **label corresponding to the version in which the regression was detected.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the issue is not reproduced: **It’s a regression!** Test all the latest patch versions of the current minor version (e.g. 1760, 1761, 1762...) to find out in which version the issue has been introduced. If motivated, look for the PR in question. Then the issue follows the normal course: go to the next step. In addition, it has to be posted on #dev-core (Public Slack). The Project must then be labeled by selecting the **label corresponding to the version in which the regression was detected.**
```

{{% notice note %}}
The regression of the last minor or major stable version must be placed in the [patch backlog](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/projects/20) kanban, in the first column.
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice note %}}
The regression of the develop branch must be placed in the Kanban of the corresponding next minor or major version.
{{% /notice %}}

### Labelling

**This step is critical** cause **labelling** consists on tagging the issue according to its different characteristics and it helps us find a bug when we’re looking for a `duplicate`. The different tags are:

- Type (`Bug` or `Task`),
- [Severity (major, minor, ...)](../../../../get-involved/report-issues/how-issues-are-sorted/)
- *Deprecated - Regression or not (since August 2023),*
- `Verified` (if we reproduce the issue)
- Category (`FO`/`BO`),
- Affected page or concerned feature (ex: `Order`, `Module`, …),
- Affected version(s),
- Status (NMI, Needs Specs, Ready...)
- ... (non-exhaustive list)

> A list of labels and their use is [available here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/118iqWIkW24Rwn6eY8_7FnPhAacGXwA2RdGPzR_LXvy4/edit#gid=0).

Reviewer 3: @Progi1984 not available publicly

Author: Yes, it will be replaced in the next update (all internals documents will be published) by an another member of the QA Council.

### Connecting an issue to an EPIC

{{% notice warning %}}
When the issue is a **bug that was reproduced** (meaning with the `Verified` label), it MUST in most cases be connected to an Epic if it already exists.
{{% /notice %}}

> To do this, perform a search in the [Bug classification board](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/projects/11) where all EPIC are listed. If there is a related EPIC, add the issue to the EPIC (by editing the description) and ping the product team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do this, perform a search in the [Bug classification board](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/projects/11) where all Epic are listed. If there is a related EPIC, add the issue to the Epic (by editing the description) and ping the product team.
```

> If no Epic clearly corresponds to the issue (or in case of doubt), just add the bug issue to the 1st column of the kanban called "waiting for classification". The product team will regularly review the issues in this kanban and create new EPICs when needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no Epic clearly corresponds to the issue (or in case of doubt), just add the bug issue to the 1st column of the kanban called "waiting for classification". The product team will regularly review the issues in this kanban and create new Epics when needed.
```

> Note that the product team must be able to understand the bug to be able to classify it in an EPIC. This means that if the issue is not correctly described nor labelled, or if this is a very tech issue, it MUST NOT be added to the kanban.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the product team must be able to understand the bug to be able to classify it in an Epic. This means that if the issue is not correctly described nor labelled, or if this is a very tech issue, it MUST NOT be added to the kanban.
```

### Rewriting the issue

> Once all the steps have been completed, the content of the issue should be rewritten if it is unclear, or if the author has clarified in the comments. All necessary information should be available in the body of the issue!It may be necessary to rewrite the title if it is too generic (e.g. "Help! BUG!") or if it does not accurately reflect the bug.Pay special attention to the **reproduction steps** ("how to reproduce")!

Reviewer: `issue! It may be necessary`

missing space

Author: Thanks

### Validating the issue

If the issue is complete and unique, it's time to validate it! For that, after having correctly labelled it, we use the "Issue validated" model. It is important to ping the team best able to answer the author's questions: the devs, the product, the support, the qa...

## Messages templates

> ### Issue not in english

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Issue not in English
```

Thank you
```

### Incomplete issue

```
Hello,

> Could you please provide us with more info ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Could you please provide us with more info?
```

Thank you
```

### Issue validated

```
Hello,

I reproduce the issue with PrestaShop version x.x.x, I'll add this to the backlog so it can be fixed.

Please be aware that some issues might take a very long time to be resolved. If this one is important to you and you cannot wait for it to be fixed on the project’s own time, we strongly suggest you consider [contacting a professional](https://www.prestashop-project.org/support/) to help you. 

> If you fix the issue on your end, please [contribute it back to the project](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/1.7/contribute/contribute-pull-requests/). Remember that the more people contribute, the better PrestaShop becomes for everyone.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you fix the issue on your end, please [contribute it back to the project](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/8/contribute/contribute-pull-requests/). Remember that the more people contribute, the better PrestaShop becomes for everyone.
```

although the `devdocs` helper should've worked 🤔

Author: Fixed

Thank you
```

### Issue validated

```
Hello,

I reproduce the issue with PrestaShop version x.x.x, I'll add this to the backlog so it can be fixed.

Please be aware that some issues might take a very long time to be resolved. If this one is important to you and you cannot wait for it to be fixed on the project’s own time, we strongly suggest you consider [contacting a professional](https://www.prestashop-project.org/support/) to help you. 

If you fix the issue on your end, please [contribute it back to the project](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/1.7/contribute/contribute-pull-requests/). Remember that the more people contribute, the better PrestaShop becomes for everyone.

Thank you
```

You can personalize the message according to your needs, for exemple:

For active contributors, it’s not necessary to add this block:

```
If this one is important to you [...] , the better PrestaShop becomes for everyone.
```

Instead, you can add this:

```
We’re waiting for your PR 🚀
```

#### Regression

If it’s a regression, add this sentence:

```

>  

Reviewer: why did you remove the line?

Author: There is no more regression.

For active contributors, it’s not necessary to add this block:

```

> If this one is important to you [...] , the better PrestaShop becomes for everyone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this one is important to you [...], the better PrestaShop becomes for everyone.
```

```

Instead, you can add this:

```
We’re waiting for your PR 🚀
```

### Issue not completed

```
Hello [name],

Thank you for submitting this issue. Unfortunately, there is not enough information provided to reproduce it and work on it. **You must follow the template and provide clear and concise steps to reproduce the bug**. 
Read more about how we expect the issues to be handled [here](https://build.prestashop-project.org/news/2020/how-bug-reports-are-handled/). Feel free to create a new issue if you can provide further information, we will be glad to investigate it. 

Thank you
```

> ### Issue is a functional feature request

Reviewer 3: That part is deprecated, right? somebody from the project should be informed about it, so that we could transfer it to the Discussions.

Author: I leave it to @Robin-Fischer-PS to decide as lead of the Quality Council.

Reviewer 2: This part is indeed Deprecated. The process right now is to convert issue for feature request into a GH Discussion, but we do not have (yet) a template message for that.

Thank you
```

### Issue is too technical to reproduce

```
Hello,

Thanks for reporting this issue!
Ping @PrestaShop/committers : Could someone please try to reproduce the issue, it's too technical!

Thanks in advance!
```

### Issue about an archived module

```
Hello,

This module has been archived, it’s no longer maintained but you still can fork it if you need it for your shop.
Also let us know if you are voluntary to maintain this module.

Thanks in advance!
```

## Miscellaneous notes (to be read!)

1. The "NMI" (Need More Info) tag is used at the beginning of the life of the issue, when there are still questions about the issue (quality, completeness, etc). 

> 2. "Waiting for Author" is used for conversations with the author and for NMI issues when we answers. The issue-bot will delete the label when the author answers (to help us filtering the issues that needs answers, check the [filter](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3ANMI+-label%3A%22Waiting+for+author%22)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. "Waiting for Author" is used for conversations with the author and for NMI issues when we answers. The issue-bot will delete the label when the author answer (to help us filtering the issues that needs answers, check the [filter](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3ANMI+-label%3A%22Waiting+for+author%22)).
```

> 3. In case of regression discovery, it is essential to share the regressions on #qa-core (PS Slack) and #dev-core (Public Slack) and to put them in the right project (e.g. if the regression is on PS 1.7.8.5, we put it in the project 1.7.8.5 and in the project [Maxi Kanba](https://github.com/orgs/PrestaShop/projects/7)n, then the PM will prioritize it).

Reviewer 3: Maybe we could share it on #project-members for the OS project? Also, correct me if I'm wrong, but I saw earlier that regression is not used from now on, right?

Author: May be could you propose it at the next meeting of the Quality Council. They are always open to external members.

> 3. In case of regression discovery, it is essential to share the regressions on #qa-core (PS Slack) and #dev-core (Public Slack) and to put them in the right project (e.g. if the regression is on PS 1.7.8.5, we put it in the project 1.7.8.5 and in the project [Maxi Kanba](https://github.com/orgs/PrestaShop/projects/7)n, then the PM will prioritize it).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In case of regression discovery, it is essential to share the regressions on #dev-core (Public Slack) and to put them in the right project (e.g. if the regression is on PS 1.7.8.5, we put it in the project 1.7.8.5 and in the project [Maxi Kanba](https://github.com/orgs/PrestaShop/projects/7)n, then the PM will prioritize it).
```

4. Don't hesitate to ping the devs/product/QA on issues where their expertise could help, and to add the corresponding label ("Waiting for PM", "Waiting for Dev", etc).
    - If you ping someone, ask a direct question! Don't waste their time by making them read the whole thread and guess why did you ping them.

>     - If the issue is too technical to reproduce, ping the Sheriff on Slack (DM) while adding the “TBR” and “Waiting for Dev” labels. ([Sheriff's Calendar](https://www.notion.so/Open-Source-Sheriff-deprecated-be69f240a64e46f892ae75d233cc00b6?pvs=21))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If the issue is too technical to reproduce, add the “TBR” and “Waiting for Dev” labels. You should also ping @PrestaShop/committers on the issue.
```

> 5. If you don’t know if the issue `Major` or `Minor`, please post it in [#qa-core](https://app.slack.com/client/T029HS3DQ/C89MEQ2CB) and ping PM (@core-pm) and [QA lead](https://www.notion.so/Robin-Fischer-PS-3a6751548f414904beaca65af7adfdb7?pvs=21), so they can settle the severity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. If you don’t know if the issue `Major` or `Minor`, please post it in [#quality-assurance](https://app.slack.com/client/TTJ6M3GPL/C05M16TEEGG) and ping QA lead (@Robin Fischer), so they can settle the severity.
```
